I have one last example that I'm gonna
show you that is pretty fitting.
It's Todo MVC one last final time,
but a different type of Todo MVC than
we've seen to date which is pnpm --filter
example-todomvc, and I'm gonna just
run this straight in dev and
build and start.
I'm gonna run this in production mode so
we can just see the whole thing as it is.
What's special about this todomvc?
It's still got a single server out.
But what we've done here,
essentially is, we've created a route
data which is our server data, which gets
the gets our todo's from a database.
Except now we're using our server
action API's to do mutations, and
what this does is we define an action
like an addTodo, removeTodo and
the implementation of those, I've got
them here at the bottom of the file.
They basically call our database and they
use form data to call our database and
then they redirect back to our page.
The redirect probably you're
thinking that's kind of weird,
but it's because we want these to work
even if JavaScript is turned off.
So we can define a bunch
of actions on our page.
Like these are all the todo stuff,
things that we implemented earlier.
And we can essentially
create actions out of these,
and what it will give us
is both the current state
of the form submission
like this addingTodo and
then the ability to
actually submit the form.
It's our same tupple,
it's read-write again.
And what this lets us do is we
could just call the submit method
if we wanted to do like a JSON backend.
But it also exports a .Form which just
gives us our uppercase form component,
which here we're seeing it,
clear the value and
do a little bit of client side
validation before it calls our backend.
So without wiring up any URLs or whatnot,
we can create multiple
forms on the same page.
We have addTodo.Form, toggleAll.Form.
Again, this is classic like
using the input hidden fields.
This is classic form kind of stuff, but
what's really cool about it is that
read state here addingTodo and
removingTodo gives us a bit
of progressive enhancement.
For example.
We iterate over our filtered
list of todos like we were doing earlier,
but now at the bottom, where is it?
We can also iterate over the addingTodo,
which are the ones in the pending state,
and we're just feeding that
form data back into our UI so
we can show stuff in
a pending status essentially.
If the JavaScript turned off,
then who cares?
We don't get this like extra enhancement.
But let's us do optimistic updates and
optimistic UI with progressive enhancement
always part of this nice little
package and let's take a look and
see how that works, okay?
It should look familiar to everyone by
now, but now let's try and learn solid.
We can see, I'm not a CSS wizard here.
You're gonna see like a purple.
Well, it's in that pending state.
I don't know if you caught that.
Let's try that again.
Hello World, right?
This purple state, just kind of
showing like the progressive and
you can see the counts and
everything updating, let's go.
Active.
Completed.
And this is just a typical
working ToDo example.
But what's really cool about
this example is if I go to
the sources here, and
was it sources or network?
I couldn't remember which one,
I think is sources,
I go command P and
I go disabled JavaScript.
JavaScript is now disabled.
It's no surprising that when I refresh on
the page that the server side rendering
still works.
But what's cool about this
is when I do learn solid,
you're not gonna see that purple anymore.
Saw the page actually refreshing.
But, It's still fully working and
we can propagate errors this way and
redirects and do all our typical actions
even when the JavaScript is turned off.
And what's really cool about this is, it's
using a combination of these RPC calls.
And kind of like the streamlined API so
you can make as it's not like your
typical HTTP kind of where each page
is a location and you have to post.
We've kind of broken that rule, you can
have ten actions on the same page, you can
put your actions in your components
not even in your page component.
And this gives us kind of this freedom to
kind of define the stuff in JavaScript,
the way we're used to when we're
building things like single page apps.
And yet still have this kind of
progressive enhanced experience.
And I think one of the really cool
things about this approach, though,
we're not leveraging it in this demo
at all, is that all actions have
the ability to, let me see an example
of one here, all the, yeah, here.
They also take an option object, so
we could do something like this and
pass an option.
And one of those options
could be invalidate it.
And we have the ability to
say invalidate to this.
So we can say when like by default
when we do an action it tells
all the server data to refresh it,
basically, for
the page it looks at all the route
sections and we don't know what changed,
we cannot treat it like a classic MPA,
like just refresh the data.
Luckily, underneath our server data or
resources that feed into stores so
we get those fine grained
reconciled updates.
But what if we don't wanna reload
all the server data every time?
Well, we kind of took this kind
of progressive approach of remix,
mixed it with React query.
And those keys that I was playing
around with a moment ago when I was
doing the route data fetching whereas
like setting the key to the source.
Well, they follow a very similar key
mechanism to React query where you can use
arrays and go like user, user ID and
you can do invalidation.
And then, it will be smart enough to
only refetch the data specifically
related to that action.
So we kind of decoupled the full
page reload experience on top of
doing the fine grained updates.
So we think there's a really
powerful pattern here for
doing both fetching and data mutation.
Because it lets you build apps in kind
of a classic way in the sense you get
the progressive enhancement and
you're using the HTML,
capital form, capital anchor.
But you also get to kind of not get
away from modern conveniences like
type script safety.
Run those forms through Zod,
and kind of mix this together
into an experience that we
think is really powerful.
And that's Solid start today.
It's in beta.
We're still ironing out bugs.
You've seen a couple today probably.
But well, it takes a little bit of
time Solid JS has been 1.0, it's been
in production for the last year now, but
Solid start is still a very new project.
We're gonna continue to
make improvements on it.
And some of those which would be
a great demo for another time but
I'll link the resources
is we have support for
partial hydration islands and
server components.
In fact, the course website
that you've been using this
today is actually all built
with server components, so
this is the future for Solid start and
for SolidJS in general.